Please find attached articles in the Announcements that we would like you to review for the next class on Program Evaluation.

Diana recommends all of you to read the introduction to the manual (12 pages) and the assigned chapter. The paper on Rotavirus stands as an example for Program Evaluation from Colombia.

Please ALL read the summary and introduction of “ Introduction to Program Evaluation for Public Health Programs: A Self-Study Guide” and the chapter assigned to each of you:

Step 2: Describe the Program: Sheldon Waugh

Step 3: Focus the Evaluation Design: Jake Ball

Step 4: Gather Credible Evidence: Shivani Khan

Step 5: Justify Conclusions: Joe Brew

Assignment Questions:

Define program evaluation in your own words. (1 -2 sentences)
What do you think is the main difference between program evaluation and epidemiological research?
Based on the paper “Effectiveness of the monovalent rotavirus vaccine in Colombia: A case-control study”, Do you think they apply the step that you read in the CDC guideline? How can they improve the rotavirus evaluation next time?

Here is an additional assignment related to reviewing for journals, that should take no more than about 30 minutes:

Read the “reviewer guidelines” for Elsevier, a publisher of several major medical and public health journals. 

http://www.elsevier.com/reviewers/reviewer-guidelines#conducting-a-review (Links to an external site.)

1.  Note that one of the issues is related to ethics.  Click on the ethics link and look at the ethical issues related to researchers.  Name 3-4 of the most important ethical issues that can come up when reviewing papers. 

The link is also here:  http://www.elsevier.com/ethics/toolkit (Links to an external site.). 

2.   Read about what the journal is looking for within each section of a manuscript.  Under the “methods” click on the link to the most common statistical errors.  http://www.elsevier.com/__data/assets/pdf_file/0008/110996/reviewers_statistics.pdf (Links to an external site.)

Read this 1-page document for the publisher’s recommendations about common statistical issues.  Identify whether there are any that you don’t agree with, or state that you agree with all of them.    